DR CLAIRE HANDBY

FCIOB | MAPM

TRANSFORMATION LEAD | BIG4-SIGNING DIRECTOR |
BUSINESS OWNER | NED | ICF EMCC EXECUTIVE COACH
+44 07827 823 458

drclairehandby.com

contact@drclairehandby.com

Find me

Claire is an energy radiator, with a commercial, transformation, operations,
assurance and performance improvement background. A complex system
integrator, past Big4 (Deloitte, EY, KPMG 15 years) leader who supports
Corporate, SME businesses and Government to realise the opportunities of
Major Enterprise, Portfolio, Programme and Project investments. Assessing the
business needs through the lens of Culture, Asset utilisation, Organisation,
Technology, Processes and Data, she has a proven track record, integrity and
an analytical ‘can do’ mind-set. Claire has the ability to use data driven
insights to inform vision definition, strategy, and operational turnaround
requirements across myriad complex demands, whether strategic or tactical,
she delivers. An accomplished, smart leader of teams, for over two decades,
she is nimble in meeting multiple executive stakeholder requirements.

OVERVIEW:

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

QUALIFICATIONS:

DR CLAIRE HANDBY BUSINESS
LEADERSHIP LTD

JULY 2023 –
PRESENT

Management Consulting, Growth leadership, NED, Executive Coach contracts
Munich Re, HSB, MD Group Insurance – Programme Leader of business turn
around, family business (c.400 people) to Corporate integration. Key outcome double digit £m growth across 17 commercial and operational workstreams.
Secured performance improvement across the Board with Accountable owners.
Led strategic and tactical drumbeat to profitable growth, quick wins, designed
sprint delivery, management actions she held to account through processes,
people, technology, data/MI driven (replaced Deloitte).
Non-Executive Director – Tech start up, with AI to support talent to secure
career pivots in the jobs market. Interim COO Role to set operations, Board ToR,
growth strategy to higher revenue.
BBC Major Project Assurance – Subject Matter Expert, £50m Opex and Capex
Project Assurance Review, interviewed 15+ senior stakeholders, reviewed project
collateral and defined improvement actions for BBC Executive and Project Steer
Co (replaced KPMG & Deloitte).
Co-Operative Group Transformation – Programme Leader, established their
billion pound growth roadmap to go from £10 to £20bn, underpinned by
defining and holding to account leaders for processes, organisation, culture,
technology workstreams. Improved operational excellence across the Board
and accountable owner delivery.
Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) Training Academy – Design, delivery
and development of training courses UK & EMEA, topics include Client and
Construction Project Management, Conflict Resolution & Contract
administration such as NEC. Clients include NHS, Developers, Constructors.
Executive Business Growth Coach – 121's with high performance c-suite leaders
and entrepreneurs, achieving career pivots, promotions and leveraging
corporate experience, applying tested coaching techniques via the Academy of
Executive Coaching (AoEC), ICF, EMCC.
Chartered Institute of Building – Company & Corporate Membership Assessor
providing assurance over written submissions and interviewing
candidates/companies to become Chartered within the Institute, typically CEO.
PL Infrastructure Ltd - Chief Operating Officer, completed current state
assessment across all functions of the business, plugged gaps via
systems/data/people, completed talent recruitment, implemented delegated
authority levels, all phases of operations driven from inception through to
implementation. Part of the Board to stabilise and grow pipeline to 2030.

Multi-sector experience | Financial
services, Local and Central
Government, Corporate Assets and
Construction, Health Acute & CCG,
Sustainability & ESG, PFI, Media,
Utilities, Transport, Housing, Retail,
Telcom, Nuclear, Real Estate
Core Skills | Corporate & Government,
Advisory, Infrastructure Asset
ownership, Consulting & Assurance

Academy of Executive Coaching |
Advanced Practitioner Diploma
Visiting Professor | School of
Business, Engineering and Science,
University of Salford
Honorary Doctorate in Business
Administration | Dr
Assessor & Fellow Construction
Manager | FCIOB
BSc Hons Degree in
Construction/Building Management
| 2:1
Member, Association of Project
Managers | MAPM
Association Project Management |
Practitioner
Management of Portfolios (MoP) |
Practitioner
Managing Successful Programmes
(MSP) | Practitioner

AWARDS:
KPMG Values Example, Social Media
representative for 17,000 colleagues
Deloitte Northwest Europe Impact
Award winner
Management Consultancy Award
(MCA) Winner Health Sector
Deloitte UK Financial Advisory
Services Impact Award winner
EY & Northern Power Woman ‘Person
with Purpose’ Award nominee
EY International Women’s Day
nominee ‘Ground Breaker and
Outstanding Mentor’
Mace Star Award winner
University of Northumbria ‘Student
of the year’ Bachelor of Science
Degree

Page 1 / 3

DR CLAIRE HANDBY

FCIOB | MAPM

TRANSFORMATION LEAD | BIG4-SIGNING DIRECTOR |
BUSINESS OWNER | NED | ICF EMCC EXECUTIVE COACH

KPMG LLP – DIRECTOR (EXECUTIVE/SIGNING LEVEL)
MAJOR PROJECTS ADVISORY, DEALS SERVICE LINE

2021 - 2023

Advisory Leadership :
KPMG Business - Director Major Projects Advisory, Deals | March 2021 – July 2023 Defining, leading, delivering the commercial
growth strategy for the practice, grew from 45 people to 100+. Multi-channel and proposition portfolio strategy developed,
provided a 3+6+9 year financial trajectory to 2030. Stabilised the pipeline reporting, generating fees from £10m to £22m in fees,
built the operational excellence framework. Role model leader.
Great British Railway (GBR) Transition Team | April - November 2021 Programme Management Office Sprint Director - Set up
the PMO and Performance Improvement Assurance requirements: Delivered across 12 workstreams, multiple interfaces
managed between Central government including DfT, Network Rail and the GBR Transition Executive/Senior Leadership. Led a
team of 60 people to achieve the outcome of a Business Case submission for the Transport Secretary; met GMPP/IPA Red Team
Reviews.
Interim Leadership :
New Hospital Programme | November 2021 – January 2023 Programme Assurance Office Director - £3.7billion+ programme,
delivering transformational change for 48 Hospitals. Programme Assurance Office designed, reported into the Board. Strategic
implementation, programme controls governance from assurance Orange Book, engaged with DHSC, IPA, Major Projects Review.
Integrated Planning, Strategic Risk, Reporting.
Assurance Leadership :
Environment Agency Information Asset Delivery | December 2022 – July 2023 KPMG Critical Relationship Lead Director - £5
billion programme, Knowledge Information Assets review, aligned to the Rose Book government guidance and met commercial
expectations.
BBC Critical Projects | October 2022 – July 2023 Critical Project Assurance Director - Delivered Programme and Project
commercial and capital review requirements working with BBC Executive team as part of Corporate Internal Audit.

DELOITTE LLP –DIRECTOR
REAL ASSET CONSULTING, FINANCIAL ADVISORY SERVICE LINE

2016 - 2021

Advisory Leadership :
Regional Capital Projects Lead - September 2017 – December 2028 Market maker activities generating new fee pipeline and
farming existing projects, managing a portfolio of opportunities and bids, engaging with multiple exec sponsors and clients,
operationally managing multi £m portfolio of fees.
UK 5G Accelerator Programme | February 2020 – March 2021, Strategic Construction Lead Advisor – Focused to accelerate the
UK’s adoption of 5G, role included attending external panels to speak, engaged 121 with the infrastructure market at all levels SME
and Large-Scale businesses, manufacturers, West Midlands Combined Authority
Nuclear Decommissioning Authority | February 2017 - Apr 2017 Programme Leadership Advisor: £200million set up the
programme with early governance processes, commercially mobilised the Programme team and established the PMO
operational excellence with a comprehensive terms of reference.
Leeds City Region HS2 Growth Strategy | December 2017 - September 2017 Programme Director: Led and integrated six
workstreams to deliver the strategic blueprint. Workstreams included skills and supply chain, economics, funding/
finance/Commercial, regional connectivity with technology, FBC submitted to MHCLG on time and quality.
We Love Manchester 3rd Sector | June 2017 - July 2017 - Project, MI & Data Governance Lead: Led a team to gather, analyse data
and allocate £multi-million charity funding to help the people affected by the terrorist attack.
Embracing Digital Disruption | October 2016 - 2021 Project Director: Established vision and social media presence incl. videos,
blogs and keynote speaker to help drive up brand and eminence of Deloitte within government departments linked to disruptive
technology such as 3D printing for medical devices to help children and adults.
Interim Leadership :
Homes England | May 2018 - December 2019 Interim Investment Director - Delivered the decision-making process to invest
commercially in core parts of the £5.5billion spend across England, to unlock Brownfield sites for increased housing delivery over
the next 25-30 years. Led project teams and assessed 25 projects ranging in business case funding from £10m to £250m. Major
partnership engagement across central, local government and private sector.
Department for Health and Social Care | June 2020 - October 2020 Interim Managing Director: Emergency, international supply
chain resilience response, led across operational and medical workstreams related to PPE reaching the frontline during the
Pandemic. Worked within NHS England and Improvement, coordinating delivery across Department for Health, Crown
Commercial Services, BEIS departments.

Page 2 / 3

DR CLAIRE HANDBY

FCIOB | MAPM

TRANSFORMATION LEAD | BIG4-SIGNING DIRECTOR |
BUSINESS OWNER | NED | ICF EMCC EXECUTIVE COACH

Department for Work and Pensions | June 2017 - September 2017 Interim Programme Controls Improvement: Delivered analysis
and support for a Critical Central Government cost reduction programme, identified and aligned their PMO target operating
model and controls, established the management action plan to drive performance up across their estate, planning and
reporting for a £400m programme comprising 900 assets.
Assurance Leadership :
BBC Subject Matter Expert | January 2018 - April 2018 Pre-Gateway NAO Red Team’ Review Assurance Lead: Created the
methodology and insight to drive uptick in performance on an £80m Programme within the BBC’s investment portfolio ahead of
an NAO Review. Improvement areas included commercial and cost management, business case approvals, financial reporting,
contingency management, contract management.
Manchester Airport Transformation Programme | October 2016 - January 2017 Programme Assurance Lead for programme
health check: £1billion transformation programme, delivered a pre-gateway ‘investment decision’ Review for a £500m contract
to allow the contract to be signed with corporate and programme risks known and accepted by the Board.

EY LLP –SENIOR MANAGER & MANAGER
CONSULTING/ADVISORY SERVICE LINE

2008 - 2016

Advisory Leadership:
EY Advisory Major Capital Project Business Growth Lead | Senior Manager
Cooperative Group and Manchester City Council | Commercial Excellence Advisor
Wirral Council | Strategic Vision and Blueprint workshops
Interim Leadership:
HS2 | Project Controls Lead
Local Government Greater Manchester Devolution | Interim Programme Manager
NHS Trust | ‘2014 Management Consultancy Award (MCA) Winner “Performance Improvement in the Public Sector” - Interim
Programme Director
Assurance Leadership:
Global Construction Contractor | Performance Improvement Review
Network Rail | Performance Improvement Assurance
Transport for Greater Manchester (TfGM)| Programme Assurance Lead
United Utilities (UU) | Performance Improvement Assurance
London 2012 Olympics Delivery Authority | Advisor and Assurance Reviewer

INFRASTRUCTURE INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE - PRIOR TO 2008
Mace Group | Project Manager & Senior Project Manager 2004 – 2008
Laing O’Rourke Group & Laing Management Ltd | Project/Package Manager & Planning and Schedule Resourcing Manager
1998 – 2004
McCarthy and Stone (Dev) Ltd | Assistant Project Manager/Sub Site Agent 1996 – 1998

PURPOSE | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RELATIONSHIPS:
Companies House Registered Board Trustee | Trafford Rape and Sexual Abuse Charity, including Board set-up, business
continuity planning and property relocation.
Public, Key Note and Inspirational Speaker | Leadership Podcasts, University of Salford; Lancashire, Yorkshire & Humberside
Women in Business; Northwest Annual Keynote Speaker; Party Political Conference representing the CIOB.
Business Ambassador - Meningitis Now Charity | Supporting the charity to increase its impact and profile with the business
community, to end the devastating consequences of the illness.
Inspiring Partnerships Programme | Executive Coaching, including Heads and Deputy Heads of Education Establishments
e.g.3000 person further education college.
Big4 1 million Futures Programme | To build ‘Open-Source’ 3D printed hand tools for children to help them embrace upper
limb differences, building a 3d printing eco-system, open-sourced and across flag ship partners, attended Dell Technologies
event in Las Vegas invited by Michael Dell.
Big4 Health & Wellbeing | Example included leading the drive for alternative forms of mental health support e.g. established
the ‘Deloitte Choir North West in 2019.’

Page 3 / 3

